Make a Cappuccino Without a Machine:
What You’ll Need:

Espresso
Milk
A Whisk & A Glass
Beautiful Coffee Cup (but only if you need to instagram your cappuccino, otherwise any cup will do)

Step 1: Make espresso.
Do it however you always do it. Maybe you have a cool Nespresso machine like me and George Clooney, or maybe you use a Bialetti Moka. If you don’t have an espresso machine, the easiest thing to do is buy a cheap Moka (here in Italy you can find them for a few euro), and some ground illy coffee.

See my Moka Pot Instructions post if you need help making Espresso with the Moka.

 

Step 2: Heat up milk.

Heat up about half a cup of milk in the microwave or on a stove top until its really hot, but not quite boiling. I put mine in the microwave for one minute.

If you can, it’s best to use a fresh whole milk since it will make a creamier froth.

 

Step 3: Whip milk into a thick froth with a whisk.
Take a whisk between the palms of your hands, and whip the milk until you have a thick froth. Ideally you shouldn’t see any big bubbles, so whip for a couple of minutes if you need to.

 

Step 4: Swirl & Tap.

Swirl the glass in a circle to condense the foam together, and tap it on the counter to pop the bigger bubbles. Repeat swirling and tapping a few times until the foam looks nice and creamy!

 

Step 4: Pour

Imeddiatly after one last swirl, pour the milk into the espresso, shaking your wrist side to side a bit to help the foam come out before the rest of the milk. This way it will sit nicely on top of the espresso.

Thats it! Obviously, a cappuccino made with a milk steamer has a much thicker froth, so any self-respecting cappuccino snob will wrinkle their nose at this. That being said, this froth is actually pretty much the same quality as what I get from the Nespresso Aeroccino frother that I have.

The whisk method is a quick and easy substitute for desperate circumstances. The next time you find yourself with only a whisk and a spoon, and someone tells you to make a cappuccino or walk the plank, you’ll thank me.