How to Make Espresso Without an Espresso Machine

Here are our three favorite ways to make espresso at home: the Aeropress, the Moka Pot and the good ol’ French Press.

1. How to Make Espresso with an Aeropress
We love the Aeropress at Roasty. It’s the perfect way to make coffee on the road and, as we discovered, a great way to make a shot of espresso without an espresso machine. Here’s the step-by-step process for brewing a shot of espresso with the Aeropress. This recipe is for a double shot of espresso. For a single shot, just cut the amount of water and coffee in half.

What you’ll need:
Aeropress
Freshly roasted coffee beans
Automatic Grinder
Scale for coffee measuring (or a tablespoon)
Electric Gooseneck Kettle or Stovetop Kettle

Heat up the water. Heat some water to 185 degrees F (85 C), removing for 30 seconds after for roughly the ideal temperature. You’ll want to heat up more water than what’s called for in the recipe since you’ll end up measuring out 4 fl oz (or 1/2 cup/120 ml) of the heated water in a later step. Note: the perfect water temperature for brewing coffee is 205 degrees F (96 C), or almost boiling. However, with an Aeropress, you can play with any temperature between 185 – 205 degrees F (85 – 96 C).
Grind your coffee beans. While the water’s heating, grind your beans to a fine consistency, until you have 2 tablespoons or 30 grams. An Automatic Burr Grinder is the most precise way to get fine, espresso ground coffee, but you can always have your beans ground at the coffee shop or store in advance (it just won’t be as fresh).
Set up the Aeropress. Put a filter in the drain cap and rinse with hot water. Then put the drain cap on the AeroPress and place it directly onto a coffee mug or tumbler. Make sure it’s a sturdy container, because you’ll be putting pressure on it.
Fill the Aeropress with the coffee grounds. Fill the Aeropress with your coffee and tamp down the grounds to make sure the grounds are nice and compact (you can use any cylinder shaped item to tamp down – whatever will fit in the Aeropress).
Stir and steep. Measure out 4 fl oz (or 1/2 cup/120 ml) of the heated water, pour the water into the Aeropress and give it a quick stir.
Plunge. Wait 30 seconds after stirring, then plunge with just the weight of your hand. You’ll feel a lot of resistance but keep pushing steadily! Once the plunger is fully depressed, remove the press.
Serve your espresso. Transfer your drink to a fancy espresso cup and enjoy! For clean up, simply remove the drain cap and depress the plunger over your trash or compost to pop out the grounds. Rinse everything with hot water.
If you don’t already own the Aeropress, it’s a convenient and powerful tool to have in your coffee arsenal and a surprisingly effective way to make espresso without an espresso machine.